1. IDEATION
We live in an era where we generate health data at an unprecedented rate, and storing them on paper is technically impossible. The data stored in hospitals and other related organizations is vulnerable to various security threats such as single point of failure and typical DDos attacks. A lot of time is wasted by a doctor to go through the patient’s entire health records, which instead could have been utilized for better treatment of a patient. Further it is needless to store the same patient’s records at different hospitals when it is possible to have one common database.
Our project, HFC (Health Field Communication) decentralizes the whole EHR system with a discrete level of transparency and data privacy using blockchain and the stored medical records can be insightful, helping the healthcare providers treat and care for patients efficiently using NFC (Near Field Communication).

At present, electronic health records (EHR) are stored on centralized databases in which medical data remains largely non-portable. Centralization increases the security risk footprint and requires trust in a single authority. Moreover, centralized databases cannot ensure security and data integrity, regardless of de-identification and controlled access requirements.
HFC's major goal is to create a decentralized ecosystem for EHR that eliminates the flaws of a centralized system by inheriting the Blockchain and NFC capabilities, thereby changing the way health records are stored and used.
A blockchain-based system is one possible solution conferring several benefits that could be exploited for data federation. It remains a nascent technology and there are key technical, regulatory and institutional barriers that limit its full potential in medicine. This can be overstated by the incorporation of NFC, reducing waiting time, tedious registration process and can be registered to a new hospital with a single tap.
Thus, our project aims at giving great patient care leading to a healthier society with first class healthcare providers and great positive social and environmental impact.